New term entry for .nextAfter() (#1144)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/math-methods/terms/next-after/next-after.md

---
Title: '.nextAfter()'

> Description: 'A method used to get the floating-point number next to the first argument in the direction of the second argument.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the floating-point number next to the first argument in the direction of the second argument.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Numbers'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **Math.nextAfter()** method is used to get the floating-point number next to the first argument in the direction of the second argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Math.nextAfter()** method returns the floating-point number next to the first argument in the direction of the second argument.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
Math.nextAfter(start, direction)
```

> The first argument can be of type `double` or `float`, but the second argument can only be of type `double`. The return type for `.nextAfter()` is `double` or `float`, and matches the type of the first argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first argument `start` can be of type `double` or `float`, but the second argument `direction` can only be of type `double`. The return type for `.nextAfter()` is of `double` or `float`, and matches the type of the first argument.
```

Some special cases for `.nextAfter()` include:

- If one or both arguments are `NaN`, the result is `NaN`.
- If both arguments are signed zero, the direction of the result is unchanged.
- If the first argument is positive or negative `Double.MIN_VALUE`, and the second argument has a value which would return a result with a smaller magnitude, zero is returned with the same sign as the first argument.
- If the first argument is infinity and the second argument has a value which would return a result with a smaller magnitude, `Double.MAX_VALUE` is returned with the same sign as the first argument.

> - If the first argument is positive or negative `Double.MAX_VALUE`, and the second argument has a value which would return a result with a larger magnitude, infinity is returned with the same sign as the first argument.

Reviewer: Can we refer to the content field values (e.g., `MAX_VALUE` ((2-2-52)·21023)) without calling it on the `Double` object?

Author: Done in a different commit!

## Example

The following example demonstrates using `.nextAfter()`:

```java
public class Test {
    public static void main(String args[]) {
        float start = 1.15f;
        double direction = 5.37;
        System.out.println(Math.nextAfter(start, direction));

>     }

Reviewer: Can we do 2-space indents?

Author: Done in a different commit!

- The return type for `.nextAfter()` is of `double` or `float`, and matches the type of the first argument.
- If `direction` > `start`, then return result is > `start`.
- If `direction` < `start`, then return result is < `start`.
- If `direction` == `start`, then value of direction is `returned`.

Some special cases for `.nextAfter()` include:

- If one or both arguments are `NaN`, the result is `NaN`.
- If both arguments are signed zero, the direction of the result is unchanged.
- If the first argument is positive or negative `MIN_VALUE`, and the second argument has a value which would return a result with a smaller magnitude, zero is returned with the same sign as the first argument.
- If the first argument is infinity and the second argument has a value which would return a result with a smaller magnitude, `MAX_VALUE` is returned with the same sign as the first argument.
- If the first argument is positive or negative `MAX_VALUE`, and the second argument has a value which would return a result with a larger magnitude, infinity is returned with the same sign as the first argument.

## Example

The following example demonstrates using `.nextAfter()`:

```java
// Test.java

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
